2020-11-02 19:00:43	⚡	irc: disconnected from server
2020-11-02 19:00:54	▷	ada (~ada@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:00:54	⚡	Topic for #immersive-web is "Agenda: https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/blob/main/meetings/wg/2020-10-20-Immersive_Web_Working_Group_Teleconference-agenda.md"
2020-11-02 19:00:54	⚡	Topic set by dino on Tue, 20 Oct 2020 20:06:02
2020-11-02 19:00:54	⚡	Channel #immersive-web: 18 nicks (0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 18 normals)
2020-11-02 15:58:54	ada	Hi
2020-11-02 19:01:03	cwilso	hello!
2020-11-02 19:01:12	…	cwilso (running a couple of minutes late)
2020-11-02 19:01:25	⚡	Channel created on Wed, 10 Jun 2020 11:49:28
2020-11-02 19:01:33	…	ada sitting a couple of minutes late
2020-11-02 19:02:15	⚡	irc: disconnected from server
2020-11-02 19:02:43	▷	ada (~ada@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:02:43	⚡	Topic for #immersive-web is "Agenda: https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/blob/main/meetings/wg/2020-10-20-Immersive_Web_Working_Group_Teleconference-agenda.md"
2020-11-02 19:02:43	⚡	Topic set by dino on Tue, 20 Oct 2020 20:06:02
2020-11-02 19:02:43	⚡	Channel #immersive-web: 18 nicks (0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 18 normals)
2020-11-02 19:01:12	…	cwilso (running a couple of minutes late)
2020-11-02 19:01:35	…	ada sitting a couple of minutes late
2020-11-02 19:02:49	…	ada the problem with not using my fancy camera is that youcan see all my toys
2020-11-02 19:03:05	▷	alcooper (~alcooper@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:03:16	⚡	Channel created on Wed, 10 Jun 2020 11:49:28
2020-11-02 19:04:00	▷	cabanier (~uid418519@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:04:15	cabanier	What is the address of the zoom meeting?
2020-11-02 19:05:52	▷	bialpio (~bialpio@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:06:33	▷	madlaina-kalunder (~madlaina-kalunder@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:06:38	…	ada zoom fell over
2020-11-02 19:06:46	▷	yonet_ (~yonet@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:08:50	ada	https://mit.zoom.us/j/95309507814?pwd=MGl4bXdjdnFqdWREZDJFQ0ptbjIzdz09
2020-11-02 19:10:23	cabanier	scribenick: cabanier
2020-11-02 19:11:48	▷	bajones (~bajones@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:11:49	cabanier	ada: let's go through incubations and get their status
2020-11-02 19:12:04	lgombos	Present+ Laszlo_Gombos
2020-11-02 19:12:31	cabanier	... where they are and what is happen
2020-11-02 19:12:44	cabanier	... do we need feedback? Is it blocked?
2020-11-02 19:13:00	cabanier	... or is it done and bring into the WG?
2020-11-02 19:13:48	◁	yonet_ (~yonet@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 19:13:51	madlaina-kalunder	Present+
2020-11-02 19:13:59	bajones	present+
2020-11-02 19:14:23	…	ada my internet died again
2020-11-02 19:15:24	cabanier	(Ada's video died)
2020-11-02 19:15:37	cabanier	bajones: I will just start since Ada's video died
2020-11-02 19:15:53	cabanier	... for WebXR, everyone has an idea of the state of things
2020-11-02 19:16:06	cabanier	... so I want to give an update on how it's being used
2020-11-02 19:16:14	▷	yonet (~yonet@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:16:23	yonet	present+
2020-11-02 19:16:30	cabanier	... it has shipped in multiple browsers and there is solid support from framework developers
2020-11-02 19:16:31	⚡	irc: disconnected from server
2020-11-02 19:16:42	▷	ada (~ada@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:16:42	⚡	Topic for #immersive-web is "Agenda: https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/blob/main/meetings/wg/2020-10-20-Immersive_Web_Working_Group_Teleconference-agenda.md"
2020-11-02 19:16:42	⚡	Topic set by dino on Tue, 20 Oct 2020 20:06:02
2020-11-02 19:16:42	⚡	Channel #immersive-web: 24 nicks (0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 24 normals)
2020-11-02 19:16:30	cabanier	... it has shipped in multiple browsers and there is solid support from framework developers
2020-11-02 19:16:34	cabanier	present+
2020-11-02 19:16:44	cabanier	... lots of sites are using it
2020-11-02 19:17:09	cabanier	... and are making it a core feature. Matterport had a really cool demo where you could walk through a house
2020-11-02 19:17:13	⚡	Channel created on Wed, 10 Jun 2020 11:49:28
2020-11-02 19:17:38	cabanier	... we see small cases. For instance KaiXR whose model is to distribute cardboard to classrooms
2020-11-02 19:18:00	cabanier	... and there is a beatsaber knockoff which has a big following
2020-11-02 19:18:25	cabanier	... there was contest for making interesting sites under 20kb
2020-11-02 19:18:59	cabanier	... this is all really cool and it's good to see that they opt into  progressive content so things also work if VR is not available
2020-11-02 19:19:18	cabanier	... most web users don't have a VR set so it also works for them
2020-11-02 19:19:40	cabanier	... newer devices had better performance
2020-11-02 19:19:47	yonet	Agenda: https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/tree/main/TPAC-2020
2020-11-02 19:20:06	cabanier	... on the chrome side we've seen an uptick in the use of the WebXR since OpenXR came along
2020-11-02 19:20:41	cabanier	... the vast majority is using cardboard from Google's perspective
2020-11-02 19:20:42	…	ada is looking forward to these cardboard video experiences to use layers
2020-11-02 19:21:06	cabanier	... we should continue to develop for simple devices and powerful ones
2020-11-02 19:21:32	cabanier	... the pandemic slowed progress on the spec a bit
2020-11-02 19:21:52	cabanier	... the biggest hurdles are still the privacy implications which we're close to resolving
2020-11-02 19:22:05	cabanier	... there isn't much to do to say if it's ready for CR
2020-11-02 19:22:22	cabanier	... it's becoming part of the accepted web. There's work on improving accessibility
2020-11-02 19:22:44	cabanier	... I'm planning on being part of it for the long run
2020-11-02 19:23:16	cabanier	ada: please let us know if you have questions or if there's something that you want to add to the unconference time at the end of the week
2020-11-02 19:23:19	▷	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:23:27	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 19:23:27	…	Zakim sees yonet, alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:23:36	alexturn	present+
2020-11-02 19:23:40	ada	ack yonet 
2020-11-02 19:23:40	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:23:42	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 19:23:43	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:24:19	cabanier	alexturn: I just wanted to echo what Brandon said and it's great that we end up with devices all along the ability chain
2020-11-02 19:24:47	cabanier	... we should add more to the acknowledge sections
2020-11-02 19:24:58	cabanier	... so people can point to what they've done with pride
2020-11-02 19:25:15	cabanier	bajones: yes, that's a great unconference session
2020-11-02 19:25:31	cabanier	... we can work out some systems to add it to the full range of modules
2020-11-02 19:26:29	cabanier	ada: let's talk about anchors
2020-11-02 19:26:37	cabanier	... who are the representatives?
2020-11-02 19:27:04	cabanier	bialpio: I think that would be me. I'm unsure if there's a second person
2020-11-02 19:27:29	cabanier	... there hasn't been much acitivity after the long discussion with Alex and Blair
2020-11-02 19:27:36	cabanier	... mostly about reference space stability
2020-11-02 19:27:39	mounir	present+
2020-11-02 19:27:53	cabanier	... after that got resolved, we shipped anchors in m85 chrome
2020-11-02 19:28:05	cabanier	... no major issues have been reported after shipping
2020-11-02 19:28:39	cabanier	... the biggest outstanding thing is to move it to the hit test API
2020-11-02 19:29:11	cabanier	... the consensus was to wait to reduce confusion for authors
2020-11-02 19:29:23	cabanier	... I'll look into that soon
2020-11-02 19:29:32	cabanier	ada: are there any blockers?
2020-11-02 19:29:53	cabanier	bialpio: I hope there are none because we have shipped them
2020-11-02 19:30:09	cabanier	... I heard that Edge is looking at implementing them using OpenXR
2020-11-02 19:30:31	cabanier	ada: is there anyone from the edge team on the call? That way there are 2 contacts
2020-11-02 19:30:56	cabanier	alexturn: for hololens, we're going to be implementing the anchor implementation
2020-11-02 19:31:30	▷	klausw (~klausw@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:31:40	klausw	present+
2020-11-02 19:31:45	cabanier	lachlan: I will be happy to become the second author on this spec
2020-11-02 19:32:35	cabanier	bialpio: I heard that bajones wants to bring back cloud anchors
2020-11-02 19:32:52	▷	Lachlan (~Lachlan@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:32:54	cabanier	bajones: I don't have a special interest in that but it's a good idea for conversation
2020-11-02 19:33:13	cabanier	ada: most people that hear about anchors think that they are cloud anchors
2020-11-02 19:33:20	cabanier	bialpio: there's an issue about that
2020-11-02 19:33:30	…	mounir isn't this excluded by the charter?
2020-11-02 19:33:34	…	ada https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/issues/126
2020-11-02 19:33:36	cabanier	... that was issue 126
2020-11-02 19:33:43	cabanier	... ttps://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/issues/126
2020-11-02 19:33:52	cabanier	ada: is this in our charter?
2020-11-02 19:34:11	cabanier	bialpio: I think it's explicitly excludes them
2020-11-02 19:34:20	cabanier	ada: what can we do about that?
2020-11-02 19:34:21	…	mounir this could be on the previous version actually
2020-11-02 19:34:54	cabanier	... we can always recharter but we have so much on our plate so it's unlikely to be done soon
2020-11-02 19:35:03	cabanier	ada: next item: computer vision
2020-11-02 19:35:29	cabanier	klausw: we have several topics about computer vision. Can we postpone it until then
2020-11-02 19:35:40	cabanier	ada: ok. Let's do image face tracking.
2020-11-02 19:35:56	cabanier	... and depth sensing
2020-11-02 19:36:05	…	ada https://github.com/immersive-web/administrivia/tree/main/TPAC-2020
2020-11-02 19:36:41	cabanier	... raw image access
2020-11-02 19:36:56	cabanier	bialpio: that is something that I added to the computer vision repo
2020-11-02 19:36:59	◁	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 19:37:06	cabanier	... the prototype of the API is not in the CG
2020-11-02 19:37:58	cabanier	klausw: (garbled)
2020-11-02 19:38:11	cabanier	... I didn't look into face tracking
2020-11-02 19:38:39	cabanier	... I've asked for a home for the image tracking explainer and API
2020-11-02 19:39:08	cabanier	... just a quick overview what it looks like now
2020-11-02 19:39:22	cabanier	... it's similar to what Blair was working on.
2020-11-02 19:39:34	cabanier	... my goal was to make something that works with handheld AR
2020-11-02 19:39:41	cabanier	... but it should work with headsets
2020-11-02 19:39:56	cabanier	... there's an experiment to make it work in chrome canary
2020-11-02 19:40:03	cabanier	... (demoing example)
2020-11-02 19:40:34	cabanier	... is there anyone else who wants to takes this one?
2020-11-02 19:40:44	cabanier	... environment tracking
2020-11-02 19:41:06	◁	bajones (~bajones@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 19:41:06	cabanier	... we don't have to resolve it now but we want to move forward
2020-11-02 19:41:09	▷	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #Immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:41:29	▷	alexturn_ (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:41:30	cabanier	... developers are really interested. Right now they use the direct camera access
2020-11-02 19:41:34	alexturn_	q+
2020-11-02 19:41:34	…	Zakim sees alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:41:41	cabanier	... this API would be more privacy preserving
2020-11-02 19:42:02	ada	ack alexturn_ 
2020-11-02 19:42:03	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:42:09	cabanier	... and if there's hardware it will be more efficient
2020-11-02 19:42:24	cabanier	alexturn_: the image tracking we have on hololens is not generic
2020-11-02 19:42:35	cabanier	... we have QR code tracking built-in.
2020-11-02 19:42:54	cabanier	... so maybe we can have a base API and add implementations
2020-11-02 19:43:18	cabanier	... maybe there's image tracking for known classes and we'd be interested on the QR code side
2020-11-02 19:43:31	cabanier	ada: alexturn_ would you be interested in being a contact?
2020-11-02 19:43:35	cabanier	alexturn_: yes
2020-11-02 19:44:10	cabanier	ada: ok. I will set up a new repo for image tracking with Klaus and Alex as the contact s
2020-11-02 19:44:14	cabanier	ada: ok. I will set up a new repo for image tracking with Klaus and Alex as the contacts
2020-11-02 19:44:48	cabanier	klausw: it would be interesting to hear what people want to do with a generic API?
2020-11-02 19:45:07	cabanier	alexturn_: maybe a marker API
2020-11-02 19:45:34	cabanier	ada: real world geometery
2020-11-02 19:45:48	cabanier	... is Trevor here today?
2020-11-02 19:46:04	cabanier	bialpio: I don't think any work was done on this
2020-11-02 19:46:06	alexturn_	q+
2020-11-02 19:46:06	…	Zakim sees alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:46:14	cabanier	... the main use case was solved with hit test
2020-11-02 19:46:33	cabanier	... so it was deprioritized but we want to pick it up again
2020-11-02 19:46:47	cabanier	ada: does anyone else want to work on this or be a contact?
2020-11-02 19:46:53	ada	ack alexturn_ 
2020-11-02 19:46:53	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:47:04	cabanier	alexturn_: OpenXR started discussing this
2020-11-02 19:47:19	cabanier	... we're discussing how to best expose meshes, etc
2020-11-02 19:47:48	cabanier	... especially over the next couple of months we'll be interested in discussing this
2020-11-02 19:48:11	◁	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 19:48:50	cabanier	ada: computer vision and raw camera access
2020-11-02 19:49:02	cabanier	bialpio: I believe Blair is listed as the lead
2020-11-02 19:49:15	cabanier	... raw camera access is still in my personal repo
2020-11-02 19:49:57	cabanier	... the only feedback is from Blair and about camera's that give back images at a different rate than the requestanimationframe
2020-11-02 19:50:09	alexturn_	q+
2020-11-02 19:50:09	…	Zakim sees alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:50:10	cabanier	... on smartphone AR this is not an issue
2020-11-02 19:50:23	cabanier	... but on headsets this is more complicated
2020-11-02 19:50:26	ada	ack alexturn_ 
2020-11-02 19:50:26	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:50:36	cabanier	alexturn_: I'm happy to participate here
2020-11-02 19:50:54	cabanier	... for HL 1 and 2, image come in a the media cadence
2020-11-02 19:51:03	▷	bajones (~bajones@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 19:51:07	cabanier	... for each frame you get extra data to locate the frame
2020-11-02 19:51:18	cabanier	... the question is how you would align it to the phone model
2020-11-02 19:51:33	cabanier	... in our case we align to the render frame rate
2020-11-02 19:51:49	cabanier	... I'm optimistic that we can come to a resolution
2020-11-02 19:52:00	cabanier	ada: do you have a link to the PR?
2020-11-02 19:52:21	bialpio	https://github.com/immersive-web/computer-vision/pull/4
2020-11-02 19:52:31	klausw	q+
2020-11-02 19:52:31	…	Zakim sees klausw on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:52:45	ada	ack klausw 
2020-11-02 19:52:46	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:53:00	cabanier	klausw: I had a comment on the computer vision
2020-11-02 19:53:15	cabanier	... it seems that (garbled)
2020-11-02 19:53:42	cabanier	... should there be more general support for computer vision to set up pipelines
2020-11-02 19:54:31	cabanier	ada: the original thinking was to provide algorithms
2020-11-02 19:55:01	cabanier	klausw: we were going to list the use cases and then design generic analysis pipelines
2020-11-02 19:55:11	cabanier	... this hasn't seen much activity
2020-11-02 19:55:31	cabanier	.... but nobody has done this pipeline approach
2020-11-02 19:56:07	cabanier	... if people are happy with individual approach, that's fine but if people want to do the generic one, they should speak up
2020-11-02 19:56:20	cabanier	ada: yes, please raise this as a topic to discuss
2020-11-02 19:56:46	cabanier	... next topic is depth sensing
2020-11-02 19:56:51	cabanier	bialpio: that's me again
2020-11-02 19:57:08	cabanier	... quick update: we have an implementation for a depth sensing API
2020-11-02 19:57:22	cabanier	... it's not publicly available
2020-11-02 19:57:41	cabanier	... it will be done as an origin trial  to get feedback from developers
2020-11-02 19:57:58	cabanier	... not many people have looked at it yet
2020-11-02 19:58:09	ada	q+
2020-11-02 19:58:09	…	Zakim sees ada on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:58:17	alexturn_	q+q+
2020-11-02 19:58:17	…	Zakim sees ada, q+ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:58:21	cabanier	... the only feedback was initially from Rik
2020-11-02 19:58:29	alexturn_	q+
2020-11-02 19:58:29	…	Zakim sees ada, q+, alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:58:36	cabanier	... we will learn more on how people interact with the API
2020-11-02 19:58:38	ada	q- q+
2020-11-02 19:58:39	…	Zakim sees ada, alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:58:46	cabanier	... please take a look
2020-11-02 19:58:49	ada	ack ada 
2020-11-02 19:58:49	…	Zakim sees alexturn_ on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 19:59:07	cabanier	ada: what is the difference between depth sensing and real world geometry
2020-11-02 19:59:28	cabanier	bialpio: RWS gives you meshes and planes
2020-11-02 19:59:57	cabanier	... depth sensing is used differently. it can be used for occlusion
2020-11-02 20:00:14	cabanier	... it gives out data that's easier to consume by graphics API
2020-11-02 20:00:29	ada	ack alexturn_ 
2020-11-02 20:00:29	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:00:32	cabanier	... we could merge them together but I would like to hear what people have to say about it
2020-11-02 20:01:05	cabanier	alexturn_: on our API we have planes and meshes and them people do their hit test against that
2020-11-02 20:01:20	cabanier	... or people use them for occlusion
2020-11-02 20:01:45	cabanier	... when people need all the geometry, they need another tier
2020-11-02 20:01:58	cabanier	... the question is what tiers should exists
2020-11-02 20:02:11	cabanier	... should we talk about the full set of use cases
2020-11-02 20:02:28	cabanier	... or are there other breakdowns. We should have a discussion first
2020-11-02 20:02:48	cabanier	ada: should this be an unconference session?
2020-11-02 20:03:02	cabanier	alexturn_: yes, let's discuss the module breakdown
2020-11-02 20:03:32	cwilso	scribenick: cwilso
2020-11-02 20:03:37	cwilso	scribe: Chris Wilson
2020-11-02 20:04:09	cwilso	Ada: next topic, detached elements, but Dean isn't here, so let's come back to that.
2020-11-02 20:04:26	cwilso	... DOM overlays.  Klaus?
2020-11-02 20:05:11	cwilso	Klaus: there's an editor's draft out, and an explainer.
2020-11-02 20:05:31	◁	alexturn_ (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 20:05:31	bajones	Kudos to Klaus for going out of his way to put together even some minimal slides for the incubations he's covering!
2020-11-02 20:05:37	cwilso	...there's still some confusion as to how this fits in with XR, so that's on me to provide context.
2020-11-02 20:05:59	cwilso	...It's been in Chrome for handheld AR since v84.  Has anyone else shown interest?
2020-11-02 20:06:05	ada	q+ to ask about VR dom overlays
2020-11-02 20:06:05	…	Zakim sees ada on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:06:08	▷	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 20:06:19	lgombos	q+
2020-11-02 20:06:19	…	Zakim sees ada, lgombos on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:06:32	cwilso	...a fairly large fraction of the AR sites have started using it.
2020-11-02 20:07:02	cwilso	...(shows demo)
2020-11-02 20:07:11	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 20:07:11	…	Zakim sees ada, lgombos, alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:07:38	cwilso	...there are some issues that will not translate well to headsets; that's been clear since the beginning, so I'd really like to get back to that discussion.
2020-11-02 20:08:01	ada	ack ada
2020-11-02 20:08:01	Zakim	ada, you wanted to ask about VR dom overlays
2020-11-02 20:08:02	…	Zakim sees lgombos, alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:08:23	cwilso	Ada: has there been any additional thought within Google for implementing in VR as well, or just AR?
2020-11-02 20:08:50	cwilso	Klaus: I did an initial prototype in VR, but that's been de-emphasized; technically possible, but not a priority.
2020-11-02 20:08:53	ada	ack lgombos 
2020-11-02 20:08:53	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:09:22	cwilso	Lazlo: we're looking into implementing next year.
2020-11-02 20:09:25	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 20:09:26	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:10:44	cwilso	Alex: really heartening to see DOM overlay get pickup.  Was worried people would do UI in 3D.
2020-11-02 20:11:03	cwilso	Ada: we only have one point of contact for DOM overlays.  Any volunteers?
2020-11-02 20:11:15	cwilso	Alex: I'll volunteer.
2020-11-02 20:11:20	cwilso	Lazlo: I can also help out
2020-11-02 20:12:04	cwilso	Klaus: we could have a discussion here about how this would translate to headsets if you like
2020-11-02 20:12:17	cwilso	Alex: +1 to the hotspot topic
2020-11-02 20:12:34	cwilso	...(more interested in headset than VR)
2020-11-02 20:13:18	cwilso	Ada: geo-alignment.  Blair or Trevor aren't here.
2020-11-02 20:14:13	◁	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 20:14:14	cwilso	Piotr: issue on moving anchor hit-test results.
2020-11-02 20:14:59	cwilso	Piotr: Also, hit tests are more like rays than poses, so need to over-specify what hit test results mean
2020-11-02 20:15:17	cwilso	...right now, the specification doesn't say how to construct poses.
2020-11-02 20:15:25	klausw	FYI, it appears that Blair is at VRST2020 this week: https://twitter.com/blairmacintyre/status/1323296767249682434
2020-11-02 20:15:48	cwilso	...also, hit-test shipping in Chrome since v81.
2020-11-02 20:16:04	cwilso	Ada: any questions for hit-testing, or other unconference topics?
2020-11-02 20:16:10	cwilso	Ada: on to Layers.
2020-11-02 20:17:09	cwilso	Rik: we're continuing to iterate on the spec, regular calls on this spec.  Talking with WebGL WG, got their buyin on our specified behavior.  Oculus browser is shipping an experimental version, and getting some feedback (and demos)
2020-11-02 20:18:13	cwilso	...we've recently made some changes, but the spec is basically done in terms of functionality.  Still need to flesh out some parts (TAG said explainer is not sufficient).  Moved to WG, still waiting for FPWD.
2020-11-02 20:18:28	cwilso	... Edge is interested and working on impl
2020-11-02 20:18:32	klausw	q+
2020-11-02 20:18:32	…	Zakim sees klausw on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:18:38	ada	ack klausw 
2020-11-02 20:18:38	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:18:57	cwilso	Klaus: I haven't been following closely, but I think we both have DOM layers...
2020-11-02 20:19:16	cwilso	... but they're not in the Layers spec.
2020-11-02 20:19:36	cwilso	Rik: right.  DOM layers have some security challenges, so we started with WebGL layers.
2020-11-02 20:19:52	cwilso	Klaus: would be helpful if you would join the unconf on DOM layers
2020-11-02 20:21:02	cwilso	Ada: added an "intersection of Layers and DOM layers" to unconf
2020-11-02 20:21:20	cwilso	Rik: I had a 45-min session on Thursday to discuss
2020-11-02 20:21:23	klausw	s/DOM layers/DOM Overlay/
2020-11-02 20:21:27	yonet	q+
2020-11-02 20:21:27	…	Zakim sees yonet on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:21:37	ada	ack yonet 
2020-11-02 20:21:37	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:22:11	…	lgombos prefers Thursday as well 
2020-11-02 20:22:41	cwilso	Ada: on to lighting estimation.
2020-11-02 20:23:42	cwilso	Brandon: poor, poor lighting estimation.  Movement on this is slow.  We've had a prototype (under a flag) in Chrome for a while.  Difficult to gauge support for the API's shape, recently lost Kip as a dedicated contributor.  :(
2020-11-02 20:23:55	cwilso	... seems relatively uncontroversial.
2020-11-02 20:24:06	cwilso	...ReflectionMap is biggest API challenge.
2020-11-02 20:24:34	cwilso	...Metal API docs were updated after the Seattle FTF, though, so yay!
2020-11-02 20:25:31	cwilso	...on Chrome side, we're still moving forward.
2020-11-02 20:26:11	cwilso	...difficult to work LE in if you're just doing an additive model.  But we'd love to hear opinions from the headset world
2020-11-02 20:26:27	cwilso	Ada:  Any questions?\
2020-11-02 20:26:54	cwilso	...Moving on, my faaaaaaaaavorite topic:  Navigation!
2020-11-02 20:27:31	cwilso	...  Unfortunately, Diego is not on the call.  Anyone interested in having an unconference session on Navigation?
2020-11-02 20:27:50	cwilso	Brandon: I don't think there's any movement on this, but perhaps still a good unconf discussion?
2020-11-02 20:28:39	cwilso	Ada: Next topic, performance improvements.  Repo assigned to Trevor; is anyone interested in taking this up?
2020-11-02 20:29:01	ada	https://github.com/immersive-web/performance-improvements/issues
2020-11-02 20:29:11	cwilso	Brandon: I think a bunch of this got rolled into Layers; we should revisit the repo and check.
2020-11-02 20:29:57	cwilso	Ada: Sounds good, set an unconf topic for that.
2020-11-02 20:30:45	cwilso	Ada: spatial favicons.  Ravi is no longer at ML; Dean is interested, so I'm reassigning to him.
2020-11-02 20:31:49	cwilso	Brandon: [dog barks]
2020-11-02 20:32:28	cwilso	Ada: Web GPU binding
2020-11-02 20:32:51	cwilso	Brandon: everyone is really interested in the WebGPU here; there are a few additons like swap-chain-like primitives.
2020-11-02 20:33:25	cwilso	... That's fed back into the Layers spec, which is to the benefit of both
2020-11-02 20:33:41	…	ada : synergy makes me happy
2020-11-02 20:33:51	cwilso	... hoping to be prototyping in Chrome sometime soon.  (Probably only Windows-only to begin with)
2020-11-02 20:34:20	cwilso	Ada.  Any other unconference topics?
2020-11-02 20:34:48	cwilso	Brandon: if there are any Layers topics, it's natural to fold WebGPU into them.
2020-11-02 20:34:57	▷	alexturn (~alexturn@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 20:35:16	cwilso	Ada: AR module topic:
2020-11-02 20:35:32	cwilso	Brandon: not much going on here.  It was always pretty minimal on top of XR core.
2020-11-02 20:35:56	cwilso	... lots of support from the libraries (3js, Babylon, et al) incorporating this.
2020-11-02 20:36:13	cwilso	... Not much trying to shove AR and VR into the same content, which is good.
2020-11-02 20:36:59	klausw	q+
2020-11-02 20:36:59	…	Zakim sees klausw on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:37:11	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 20:37:11	…	Zakim sees klausw, alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:37:45	cwilso	... Most developers seem to be choosing appropriately.
2020-11-02 20:38:33	cwilso	... AR is almost used with hit-test; perhaps we should consider merging?
2020-11-02 20:39:27	cwilso	...also frequently merged with DOM overlay.  I don't think that should be merged into AR core, since it's mobile-centric, but it's nice to see people taking advantage of that.
2020-11-02 20:39:55	cwilso	...the model-viewer component has been seeing great success.  (Doesn't always use WebXR, but gaining momentum.)
2020-11-02 20:40:01	…	ada was buying a bath the other day and saw a model viewer AR example, it made me happy
2020-11-02 20:40:15	ada	ack klausw 
2020-11-02 20:40:15	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:40:46	cwilso	klaus: to follow up on apps choosing appropriately... devs shouldn't assume immersive AR is the same as handset AR.
2020-11-02 20:41:38	cwilso	Ada: sounds like an unconference topic
2020-11-02 20:42:13	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 20:42:13	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:43:11	cwilso	Alex: on AR module requiring/incorporating hit-test: IO'm happy to say "use of AR module requires hit-test", sounds fine to me.  I wouldn't want to require immersive-ar in order to use hit-test.
2020-11-02 20:43:17	…	Manishearth is kinda against hit test being required for immersive-ar
2020-11-02 20:44:32	cwilso	Alex: for DOM overlay, I think it's probably critical for AR to get this as broadly as possible.  Devs should have no excuse to not do things in another way.
2020-11-02 20:44:48	klausw	q+
2020-11-02 20:44:48	…	Zakim sees klausw on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:45:12	ada	ack klausw 
2020-11-02 20:45:12	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:46:09	cwilso	Klaus: that could add a heavy burden to implementation, so I wouldn't want to require this for a new implementation.
2020-11-02 20:46:45	▷	Dave_Hill (~Dave_Hill@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 20:47:29	cwilso	Alex: Would still like it to be a de facto part of the standard.
2020-11-02 20:48:04	cwilso	Ada: Web XR Gamepad
2020-11-02 20:48:23	cwilso	Brandon: not much movement since last year.  (And I really miss seeing you all in person!)
2020-11-02 20:48:33	…	ada misses seeing everyone in person, does not miss the long flights
2020-11-02 20:48:44	cwilso	...not really a problem, since we're seeing significant usage and not much negative feedback!
2020-11-02 20:49:43	cwilso	...devs love the representations with the profiles as well
2020-11-02 20:50:02	cwilso	...in 3js, this is like three lines of code.  So good.
2020-11-02 20:50:51	cwilso	...openXR is jealous of our repository of models.  (Continuing to see new submissions, like the Oculus Touch 3 controllers that ship with the Quest 2)
2020-11-02 20:51:06	cwilso	...this is also another thing we might want to merge back into the core spec.
2020-11-02 20:51:37	cwilso	...API seems to be working well for just about everybody.
2020-11-02 20:51:39	Lachlan	q+
2020-11-02 20:51:39	…	Zakim sees Lachlan on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:51:45	ada	ack Lachlan 
2020-11-02 20:51:45	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:52:19	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 20:52:19	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:52:27	▷	yonet_ (~yonet@ef89345d.public.cloak) has joined #immersive-web
2020-11-02 20:52:42	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 20:52:42	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:53:20	cwilso	Zoom just crashed on me
2020-11-02 20:53:35	ada	scribe:ada
2020-11-02 20:53:46	cwilso	Can someone pick up note taking until I get reconnected?
2020-11-02 20:53:47	◁	Dave_Hill (~Dave_Hill@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 20:53:49	ada	We may need to reformat the blobs for binary glbs
2020-11-02 20:54:05	ada	as the nodes are inconsistent
2020-11-02 20:55:19	ada	it would be handy to add some more meta data because then parts of the implementation can be generated from the metadata
2020-11-02 20:56:00	…	cwilso thanks Ada.
2020-11-02 20:56:06	ada	brandon: cleaning the models is not a problem
2020-11-02 20:56:25	ada	alexturn:just agreeing on the node names would be very handy
2020-11-02 20:56:36	◁	yonet (~yonet@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 20:56:38	cwilso	Brandon: I tend to agree
2020-11-02 20:57:20	cabanier	q+
2020-11-02 20:57:20	…	Zakim sees cabanier on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:57:21	cwilso	...was worried naming the nodes would be an undue burden, but seems that people are willing to do that, and the conventions seem to work.
2020-11-02 20:57:34	ada	ack cabanier 
2020-11-02 20:57:35	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 20:57:57	cwilso	Rik: we're also looking into providing a hand model for the Hands API.
2020-11-02 20:58:21	cwilso	...we had some issues for the v3 model, because we had animations.  We might want to consider adding support for animated buttons.
2020-11-02 20:58:57	cwilso	Ada: on to Hand Input.
2020-11-02 21:00:04	cwilso	Lachlan: Hands is at FPWD.  People are using it in the wild; seem to like it, based on quick Twitter survey I did.  There are some issues I haven't been through yet, but need to get done.
2020-11-02 21:00:22	cwilso	...will go through later
2020-11-02 21:00:28	cwilso	...API does need TAG review.
2020-11-02 21:01:08	cwilso	...spoke with Rossen (MS rep on TAG), addressed some issues.
2020-11-02 21:01:18	ada	q+ to talk about tag review reqs
2020-11-02 21:01:19	…	Zakim sees ada on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:01:40	ada	ack ada 
2020-11-02 21:01:40	Zakim	ada, you wanted to talk about tag review reqs
2020-11-02 21:01:41	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:01:45	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 21:01:45	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:01:54	cabanier	q+
2020-11-02 21:01:54	…	Zakim sees alexturn, cabanier on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:01:59	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 21:02:00	…	Zakim sees cabanier on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:02:16	…	Manishearth Lachlan: i have some comments on grasp that i hope to post tonight
2020-11-02 21:02:57	cwilso	Alex: we have a session on Thursday
2020-11-02 21:03:13	yonet_	scribe: yonet
2020-11-02 21:03:36	ada	q?
2020-11-02 21:03:37	…	Zakim sees cabanier on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:03:39	ada	ack cabanier 
2020-11-02 21:03:39	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:03:48	yonet_	alexturn: Please join us thursday at 1pm PST for Hand input discussion
2020-11-02 21:04:37	yonet_	cabanier: we shipped the hand and the feedback has been good. I am looking forward to the Thursday session. I wish we could ship non-experimental
2020-11-02 21:04:46	◁	bajones (~bajones@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 21:05:05	…	Manishearth is excite for hands ð
2020-11-02 21:05:16	yonet_	ada: the very last thing on the list is privacy and security repo but Travis is not here, is there anyone else working on the repo
2020-11-02 21:06:33	yonet_	brandon: I don't think anyone else is working on the repo. We have been talking to the security group and we had good discussions. It would be nice if we can update the repo
2020-11-02 21:07:37	yonet_	brandon: the arifacts are useful to have in the documentation. It is on us to make sure they are in the repo and implemented off of them.
2020-11-02 21:07:44	yonet_	ada: anyone else?
2020-11-02 21:08:20	yonet_	Ada: this has been the last topic. We have a long list of unconference topics which we will put in the agenda Wednesda, Thursday and Friday
2020-11-02 21:08:58	yonet_	...there is no meetings tomorrow. The unconference topics we will have is acknowledgement, anchors, use cases for image tracking
2020-11-02 21:09:30	yonet_	...depth sensing and module breakdown, dom overlay with hot spots and how it works with HDM
2020-11-02 21:10:02	yonet_	...navigation, which is my favorite, performance improvement, if we need to archive the repo.
2020-11-02 21:10:34	alexturn	q+
2020-11-02 21:10:34	…	Zakim sees alexturn on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:10:35	yonet_	...final one is required dependencies. What should be required for different modules
2020-11-02 21:11:06	yonet_	...that is it for this evening. We will talk about XR accessibility documentation on Thursday.
2020-11-02 21:11:33	ada	ack alexturn 
2020-11-02 21:11:33	…	Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
2020-11-02 21:11:39	yonet_	...Does anybody else have anything else?
2020-11-02 21:12:14	yonet_	alexturn: It is great that we have this time for unconference. How would we decide when we slide in this unconference things?
2020-11-02 21:12:34	yonet_	ada: that's a good point. We can do doodle poll.
2020-11-02 21:13:04	yonet_	alexturn: it might be hard to move things around, how can we do something similar to sticky notes exercise.
2020-11-02 21:13:27	yonet_	ada: I am going to spin up a public document now so we can all do this now.
2020-11-02 21:13:48	ada	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yEzJx7ZioNZne531QmZ8TRZI01kS8sTif_W8PL8j1ls/edit?usp=sharing
2020-11-02 21:14:04	yonet_	...this is the first time we have to do this without actually post-its. I've pasted the doc in the irc
2020-11-02 21:14:38	yonet_	...I am going to start writing the headers, feel free to fill out the times that you are interested in.
2020-11-02 21:15:51	yonet_	klausw: unless anyone object objects we can combine the DOM Overlay topics into layers topic.
2020-11-02 21:16:26	yonet_	ada: everyone feel free to change the headers.
2020-11-02 21:18:46	◁	Lachlan (~Lachlan@ef89345d.public.cloak) has quit (Ping timeout: 180 seconds)
2020-11-02 21:21:26	yonet_	ada: I think the current description for AR, was it AR use cases?
2020-11-02 21:22:06	yonet_	brandon: I think it was mobile vs headset and controllers vs no controllers.
2020-11-02 21:23:18	yonet_	ada: people mark in the document, which particular sessions they would like to go to, it would be usefull
2020-11-02 21:23:43	yonet_	...I am the only one that is signed for navigation
2020-11-02 21:24:09	yonet_	alexturn: I want to go to all of them but I want to see others who are interested in the topics/
2020-11-02 21:33:02	yonet_	ada: thank you so much for coming everyone, this was super productive, I hope to see you again on Wednesday. Bye.
2020-11-02 21:34:16	yonet_	RRSAgent, make minutes
2020-11-02 21:36:06	yonet_	RRSagent, make log public
2020-11-02 21:36:44	yonet_	rrsagent, draft minutes
2020-11-02 21:42:43	ada	shoot we did not invite the bot
2020-11-02 21:43:06	ada	i log everything locally so i'll save out a copy
